{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440
\f0\fs24 Humanist stands on the shoulders of these open-source projects:\
\
{\f1 Surya}  layout analysis and table recognition (Python). GPL-3.0.\
{\f1 Tesseract}  classical-script OCR. Apache 2.0.\
{\f1 Leptonica}  image processing library used by Tesseract. BSD-2-Clause.\
{\f1 CodeMirror 5}  XHTML source-pane editor. MIT.\
{\f1 epubcheck}  EPUB validation wrapper. BSD-3-Clause.\
{\f1 ZIPFoundation}  EPUB ZIP packaging in Swift. MIT.\
{\f1 swift-argument-parser}  CLI argument parser by Apple. Apache 2.0.\
{\f1 Ollama}  optional local LLM runtime. MIT.\
{\f1 Gemma}  optional local chat model. Gemma Terms of Use.\
\
Bundled image-format libraries (transitive dependencies of Tesseract / Leptonica, shipped inside the .app):\
{\f1 libpng}  PNG read/write. libpng License.\
{\f1 libjpeg-turbo}  JPEG read/write. BSD/IJG license.\
{\f1 libtiff}  TIFF read/write. libtiff (BSD-style).\
{\f1 giflib}  GIF read/write. MIT.\
{\f1 libwebp}  WebP read/write. BSD-3-Clause.\
{\f1 OpenJPEG}  JPEG 2000 read/write. BSD-2-Clause.\
{\f1 libarchive}  tessdata archive support. BSD-2-Clause.\
{\f1 zstd / xz (liblzma) / lz4 / libb2}  compression libraries used by libarchive and libtiff. BSD / Public Domain / BSD / CC0.\
{\f1 Tesseract traineddata}  eng, grc, lat, heb language models from the Tesseract project. Apache 2.0.\
{\f1 Whitaker's Words}  Latin dictionary stems for the post-OCR classical-vocabulary skip-guard. Public domain (William Whitaker, US Naval Academy).\
\
Optional cloud services (opt-in per feature):\
{\f1 Anthropic Claude API}, {\f1 Google Gemini API}, {\f1 Google Cloud Vision API}, {\f1 Voyage AI Embeddings}.\
\
Built on Apple frameworks (system-provided):\
Vision, NaturalLanguage, FoundationModels, PDFKit, WebKit, AppKit, SwiftUI.\
\
Made for academic books.\
}